.TH SMDU 1 "February 2026" "0.0.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
smdu \- See My Disk Usage - A clone of ncdu
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smdu
[\fIpath\fR] [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B smdu
is a TUI disk usage analyser inspired by \fBncdu\fR(1). It recursively scans directories to calculate file sizes and displays them in an interactive file tree. The header shows the current path with a right-aligned \fBsmdu\fR version label. It features various view modes, sorting options, theming, and a focus timer.
Review mode adds an analysis-first view with ranked and grouped descendants under the current root.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-theme " \fItheme\fR"
Set the colour theme. Available themes: \fBdefault\fR (charcoal/green), \fBclassic\fR (original terminal colours), \fBdracula\fR.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-units " \fIunits\fR"
Set the display units. Available options: \fBiec\fR (binary, e.g., KiB, MiB), \fBsi\fR (decimal, e.g., kB, MB).
.TP
.B \-\-no\-fullscreen
Do not use the alternate screen buffer. By default, \fBsmdu\fR switches to the alternate screen buffer to avoid cluttering the terminal history.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help information.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Display version information.
.SH KEY BINDINGS
.SS Navigation
.TP
.B k, Up Arrow
Move selection up.
.TP
.B j, Down Arrow
Move selection down.
.TP
.B l, Right Arrow, Enter
Enter directory.
.TP
.B h, Left Arrow, Backspace
Go to parent directory.
.SS Actions
.TP
.B d
Delete the selected file or directory (with confirmation).
.TP
.B i
Show detailed information about the selected item, including symlink destination state.
.TP
.B R
Rescan the current directory.
.TP
.B q, Esc
Quit \fBsmdu\fR.
.SS View & Sorting
.TP
.B n
Sort by name (toggle Ascending/Descending).
.TP
.B s
Sort by size (toggle Ascending/Descending).
.TP
.B C
Sort by file count (toggle Ascending/Descending).
.TP
.B v
Toggle view mode (Flat vs Tree vs Review).
.TP
.B .
Toggle hidden files (dotfiles). In Review mode, this toggles Review-local hidden filtering.
.TP
.B L
Toggle file type legend.
.TP
.B H
Toggle heatmap colours for size bars.
.TP
.B p
Toggle the right-side status panel (sort/view state plus selected-file properties).
.SS Review Mode Controls
.TP
.B f
Open/close Review filters modal.
.TP
.B m
Cycle Review presets.
.TP
.B g
Cycle Review grouping field.
.TP
.B G
Collapse/expand the selected Review group.
.TP
.B u
Cycle Review scope (files/directories/both).
.TP
.B z
Cycle Review minimum size filter.
.TP
.B a
Cycle Review age-bucket filter.
.TP
.B M
Toggle Review media-only filter.
.TP
.B o
Open selected Review entry in Flat view (open parent and preselect child).
.TP
.B O
Open selected Review entry in Tree view (open parent and preselect child).
.TP
.B x
Reset Review filters.
.SS Timer
.TP
.B T
Start/Cycle focus timer (5, 10, 15, 30 minutes).
.TP
.B t
Toggle timer display visibility.
.TP
.B c
Cancel the current timer.
.SS Settings
.TP
.B S
Open settings menu.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B smdu
respects standard terminal environment variables.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B Linux binary path
.I /usr/local/bin/smdu
(or distro-managed
.IR /usr/bin/smdu ).
.TP
.B Linux man page path
.I /usr/local/share/man/man1/smdu.1.gz
(or distro-managed
.IR /usr/share/man/man1/smdu.1.gz ).
.TP
.B macOS binary path
.I /opt/homebrew/bin/smdu
(Apple Silicon) or
.IR /usr/local/bin/smdu " (Intel)."
.TP
.B macOS man page path
.I /opt/homebrew/share/man/man1/smdu.1
(Apple Silicon) or
.IR /usr/local/share/man/man1/smdu.1 " (Intel)."
.TP
.B Windows binary path
.I %LOCALAPPDATA%\\Programs\\smdu\\smdu.exe
.TP
.B Windows manual
No \fBman\fR page is installed on Windows; use \fBsmdu --help\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ncdu (1)
.SH AUTHOR
smdu contributors.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Scott Morris. License MIT. See LICENSE.
